How many Englishmen, their loyalty having been subjected to this
strain, might express the same wish upon safely gaining high ground
again is a question the writer in _The Gentleman's Magazine_ did not
venture to discuss. However, there is no question about the persistence
with which, during the past century at least, cross-Channel ferry
passengers have spoken about or written about the desirability of some
sort of dry-land passage between England and France. Engineers have
been attracted to the idea of constructing such a passage for at least
a hundred and fifty years. During that time, they have come up with
proposals for crossing the Channel by spanning it with great bridges,
by laying down submersible tubes resting on the sea bottom or floating
halfway between sea bed and sea level, or even by using transports
shaped like enormous tea wagons, whose wheels would travel along rails
below sea level and whose platforms would tower high above the highest
waves. But more commonly than by any other means, they have proposed to
do away with the hazards and hardships of the Channel boat crossing by
boring a traffic tunnel under the rock strata that lie at conveniently
shallow depths under sea level. The idea of a Channel tunnel, at once
abolishing seasickness and connecting England with the Continent by an
easy arterial flow of goods and travelers, always has had about it a
quality of grand simplicity—the simplicity of a very large extension
of an easily comprehended principle; in this case, digging a hole—that
has proved irresistible in appeal to generations not only of engineers
but of visionaries and promoters of all kinds.